.TH COMPLEARN 5
.SH NAME
complearn \- file format for the complearn configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $HOME/.complearn/config.yml
- controls options for CompLearn
.SH DESCRIPTION

The CompLearn toolkit is a suite of utilities to analyze arbitrary data.
The commands
.BR ncd (1),
.BR maketree (1),
all use the \fBconfig.yml\fR configuration file.
First, the user home directory (\fI$HOME\fR) is searched for a directory called
\fB.complearn\fR.  Within this directory, CompLearn reads a file called
\fBconfig.yml\fR, a text file structured in the YAML format.  If CompLearn can
not locate this file, default values are used.  The path to a configuration
file may also be specified by the \fB-c\fR option. A configuration file
specified in this manner overrides all other options.

For more information on the CompLearn project, please see
\fIhttp://www.complearn.org\fR

The format of this file is as follows:

\fB<VariableName>: <value>\fR

Blank lines are allowed.  Comments are designated with a \fB#\fR sign.
Variables come in one of four types: boolean, integer, or string.

The following VariableNames are valid.

.TP
\fBcompressor\fR: string (ncd (1))
The builtin compressor to be used.  Valid values are: \fBbzip\fR, \fBzlib\fR,
and \fBgoogle\fR.

.TP
\fBGoogleKey\fR: string (ncd (1), google compressor)
Key necessary to perform search queries against Google database.  Can be
obtained directory from Google at http://www.google.com/apis/.

.TP
\fBblocksize\fR: int (ncd (1), bzip compressor)
An integer from 1 to 9. 9 gives the best compression but takes the most memory.
Default 9.

.TP
\fBworkfactor\fR: int (ncd (1), bzip compressor)
An integer from 0 to 250 and controls how the compression phase behaves when
presented with the worst case, highly repetitive, input date.  CompLearn's
default value of 30 gives reasonable behavior over a wide range of
circumstances.

.TP
\fBbzverbosity\fR: int (ncd (1), bzip compressor)
An integer from 0 and 4. 0 is silent and greater numbers give increasingly
verbose monitoring/debugging output. Default 0.

.TP
\fBzliblevel\fR: int (ncd (1), zlib compressor)
An integer from 1 to 9. 1 is the fastest and produces the least compression. 9
is the slowest and produces the most compression. Default 9.

.TP
\fBisRooted\fR: bool (maketree (1))
Whether or not to create a rooted binary tree. Default 0.

.TP
\fBisOrdered\fR: bool (maketree (1))
Whether or not to order the nodes. Default 0.

.TP
\fBselfAgreementTermination\fR: bool (maketree (1))
Whether or not to insist \fIk\fR number of trees must reach an agreed score
before the program exits. Default 1.

.TP
\fBmaxFailCount\fR: int (maketree (1))
An integer specifying how many failed batches of trees must occur in succession
before the program exits.  Only used when selfAgreementTermination is off.
Default 100000.

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
#
# comments are written like this
#
GoogleKey:                A/OGsJTQFHSpufko/rRS/KLA7NAT8UNf
compressor:               bzip
blocksize:                5
workfactor:               100
isRooted:                 1
selfAgreementTermination: 0
maxFailCount:             50000
# etc

.fi

.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.complearn/config.yml
.RS per-user configuration file, overrides systemwide default
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ncd (1),
.BR maketree (1)
