.TH MAKETREE 1
.SH NAME
maketree \- perform Quartet Tree Reconstruction on a distance matrix to produce
a binary tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maketree [-ROFT]
.I distmatrix.clb
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maketree
tries to find an optimal tree to represent an input distance matrix \fBmatrix.txt\fR.
It uses the Quartet Tree Reconstruction method.  The program starts with a
random tree, and continues to try small modifications to improve the tree
score.  Eventually, the tree will stop easily improving.  The algorithm will
then write the best tree it found to \fBtreefile.dot\fR.  This is a
\fB.dot\fR-format file, which means that it can be used with the \fBgraphviz\fR
package tools such as \fBdot (1)\fR or \fBneato (1)\fR. If the distance matrix
is unlabelled, the external nodes are labelled with K-i, i starting at 0.

The following configuration variables are relevant to this command:

.TP
\fBisRooted\fR: bool
Whether or not to create a rooted binary tree. Default 0.

.TP
\fBisOrdered\fR: bool
Whether or not to order the nodes. Default 0.

.TP
\fBselfAgreementTermination\fR: bool
Whether or not to insist \fIk\fR number of trees must reach an agreed score
before the program exits. Default 1.

.TP
\fBmaxFailCount\fR: int
An integer specifying how many failed batches of trees must occur in succession
before the program exits.  Only used when selfAgreementTermination is off.
Default 100000.

.PP
Input files for this program can be created by \fBncd (1)\fR.
.PP
For more information on the details of this algorithm, please see
\fIAlgorithmic Clustering of Music\fR by \fBCilibrasi, Vitanyi,\fR and \fBde Wolf\fR at \fBhttp://www.arxiv.org/abs/cs.SD/0303025\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-rooted\fR
generate a rooted binary tree
.TP
\fB\-o\fR filename, \fB\-\-output=FILE\fR
change the default output filename to something other than treefile.dot
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-ordered\fR
generate an ordered tree
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-text\fR
distance matrix is in text format
.TP
\fB\-F\fR
disable self agreement termination and enable max fail count

.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.complearn/config.yml
.RS
per-user configuration file, overrides systemwide default; see
.BR complearn (5)
for further details.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
none
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If any of the files cannot be read, an error will be printed and the program exits with a nonzero exit code.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR complearn (5),
.BR ncd (1)
